LaTex template for PhD thesis
=====

This template is a modified version based on the template [here](https://services.anu.edu.au/training/publishing-with-latex).

# 0. Requirements


If using Linux, you can install `TexLive` by running `sudo apt install texlive-full` on Ubuntu or similar commands on Centos, etc. If using Mac, you can install `MacTeX`, you can download the .pkg file [here](https://tug.org/mactex/index.html).


# 1. To Compile and Generate a pdf

To compile and generate a pdf, you can run the file `commands.sh`. It will generate a file named `main.pdf`. The `commands.sh` is a bash script, and you can run it by typing `bash commands.sh` in your terminal. You can also run individual commands as listed in the `commands.sh` file to escape some repeated steps when composing your thesis. 

Such escapes can save a lot of time. Running the file `commands.sh` requires several Tex programs, e.g., `pdflatex`, `biber`, etc., some of which are in fact not required during developing the thesis.

# 2. To Write and Manage Your Thesis

There are several files:

- `main.tex`. This is the entry file. it includes other files. I would like you to focus on Lines 25-39. There are a few well-documented and explicit settings.

- `Front_Matter.tex`, `Chapters/*tex`. These are thesis content. They may refer to materials in other folders, such as figures in `figs/`.

- `Custom_Settings.tex`. This file sets format, and defines **many handy Tex functions/commands**.

    I would like you to focus on a few functions/commands defined in Lines 149-170 in `Custom_Settings.tex`. As you can see there, I defined two versions of Tex commands for **add**, **delete**, **margin comments**, **line numbers**. One version defines dummy commands, and the other defines effective commands. Therefore, by using one version and disabling the other, you can generate a pdf with tracked changes and comments, or the other pdf with all things cleaned. In other words, you do not need to touch any source files. All you need to do is to switch off one version commands and switch on the other version in `Custom_Settings.tex`. 

    Other settings and definitions of Tex commands are also in the file `Custom_Settings.tex`, for example, the color of changes, the color of citations, etc. You can change them. E.g., some people may like gray-scaled colors.

- `MastersDoctoralThesis.cls`. This is a very fundamental format setting file. You may not need to revise it. 
 
- `SW-biblatex.bib.raw` and `SW-biblatex.bib`. These are bibliography files. The former is the raw .bib file generated by Zotera and contains a lot of useless information and bugs (e.g., some strange characters). The latter is a revised bibliography with all useless information removed and bugs fixed. The latter can be generated from the former by running `shorten_bib.py`.

# X. Suggestions of Local Editors Superior to Overleaf Things

The text editor of Overleaf does not support autocompletion or auto-debugging. Such things are well supported by some programming editors, such as VS Code, and they can save a lot of time.
